The Joe Rogan experience.
This really gets old people. Um, for, um, I,
what I would say are obvious reasons whether it's immune system,
whether it's lack of vitamin D, where it's being shut up, whether it's a, um,
lowered cholesterol. I mean, we haven't, you know,
you don't even talk about what happens with all of the statin drugs that people
are tanked to lower their cholesterol. Well,
high cholesterol is act actually protective for something like this. Um,
so you could predict that a lot of older people were going to die if
they weren't well protected. Can we talk.
About that for a second? So statin drugs, the,
the idea is you're lowering cholesterol. Cause people have high cholesterol,
the high high cholesterol puts them at a higher risk of heart attack and.
Stroke. Not really, not really, but I mean, we can talk about that too.
That's the irony there. That's where it gets.
Confusing, right? Because you,
some people will argue that it's the balance of LDL and HDL and that
cholesterol is actually essential for production of, uh,
sex hormones and a lot of other things that the human body requires. A.
Lot of things. It's probably the most important hor uh, uh,
cholesterol is probably the most important molecule in the human body.
If you really were to parse it, uh, vitamin D sex hormones, uh,
it's a working molecule on a lot of, uh, cell membranes. And, uh,
to think that we would, I mean, the body it's so important,
the body makes like 1300 milligrams a day,
regardless of what your cholesterol intake is from food.
So in my mind, the notion that we would, um,
take this amazing molecule that is basically life giving in,
in many regards and vilify it and then take drugs to lower it.
Uh, which if you look at the research and I,
I wasn't planning on going down this path,
but if you look at the research on cholesterol and heart disease over the past
20 years, it's shifted everything away from cholesterol,
being the proximate cause of heart disease,
cholesterol and saturated fat are not the proximate cause of heart disease.
It's oxidation and inflammation. Cholesterol is,
is involved in the repair of damage to the tissue. And as a result,
people get because of the oxidation and inflammation,
there's Cho role that's in the plaques and things like that. But,
but I think many,
many doctors I'm gonna say the preponderance of doctors now agree that
cholesterol isn't the bad guy, uh, that people made it out to be. And,
and if you look at other other studies cohorts of people, who've had, um,
cholesterol of, you know,
like one 30 and lower or 200 and of
the all cause mortality, you die,
everything else at a much greater rate with low cholesterol than you do with
high cholesterol. The only difference is the, the cardiac outcomes.
Um, and it's not even deaths.
It's just cardiac events is a little bit higher in the, in the higher group.
And what, what is it about co cholesterol that why,
why did cholesterol become the bad guy? Why did it become the, the boogieman?
Um, you know, I.
Does it have to do with the hate to interrupt you there? Yeah.
Does it have to do with when they,
when the sugar industry paid off those scientists to, uh, put,
push the blame on saturated.
Fat? Yeah. I mean, um, a lot of this goes back to,
I'm not a conspiracy theorist, you know, I'm, I'm not, uh,
I think most people at the top are too greedy and stupid to organize into a
cabal. Right. So I'm, I'm thinking, how do this happen in terms of the,
so mistakes were made early on whether it's Ansel keys and I know you've had a
lot of people in the show talking about Ansel keys in the, in the seven, uh,
country study. Um, can you explain that real quick for people? Oh,
just this, this scientist, uh, in the, um, sixties,
I guess, uh, around then, uh, Ansel keys done a study looking at, um,
saturated fat intake, uh, of, um, and heart, uh,
correlated with heart disease in different countries and, and found, um,
at the end of the day,
he found that there was a correlation between high saturated,
fat intake and heart disease. Um,
but then later on you find out that he looked at 32 study, uh, 32 countries,
but picked the seven that fit his, his paradigm mostly. So that was, you know,
I, I dunno if you've had Gary Tobbs or, or Nina on the show, but, you know,
they've all, everyone has sort of beaten this one to death. So the,
the idea was that that was the sort of the start of it. And then, um,
um, McGovern and his committee when he was with the, uh, you know, uh, overs,
seeing the us department of agriculture and,
and trying to create the first food pyramids was convinced by predicate that,
uh, because McGovern's wife had had a good experience at the predicate longevity
center, which was a zero fat sort of, um, protocol. Um,
so that politicized, that enough, that they decided to vilify,
um, cholesterol over the years has been, um,
more vilified because of, uh, studies done again, correlating,
uh, higher cholesterol with, with, uh, higher incidence of, of heart issues.
And the drug industry certainly got on that.
And that's why statins came to the forefront. Uh, the.
Statins themselves though, have a host of pretty bad side.
Effects. I'm, I'm telling you, I mean,
I think <laugh> until some of these other things have come down recently,
I, I would say that this,
it statins are probably the greatest hoaxes ever perpetrated on the American
public in terms of medicine, but that's just me, I'm not a doctor.
I just do a lot of re urgent reading. So the idea that we would, yeah,
so to your point, statins tend to, um, you know, there,
there are, uh, brain fog issues, liver issues, uh, um,
muscle weakness issues. Um,
one of the things that statins do is they, uh,
decrease the amount of Coq 10 that your body produces, uh,
because it's similar pathway. And so you have to,
should generally take supplemental Coq 10 with statins. Um,
a friend of mine said that when he did the original,
when he was researching statins, one of the original patents on statins,
inclu acknowledged this deficiency of cocuten.
And so it included cocuten and the drug, but cocuten was so expensive to make.
He just cleaved off that part of the patent O anyway, um,
where I don't know where, where that was headed, but, um, you know, where the,
if we're talking about COVID, it appears that high cholesterol,
higher cholesterol is protective for infections like COVID, but how is that.
The case? Because one of the problems with COVID is people with high obesity,
obese people tend to have a really hard time with COVID. In fact,
78% of the hospitalizations, they found out that those people were obese.
I would imagine a lot of those obese people also have high cholesterol.
Okay. But look at all the other factors. So, you know, if we're, again, obesity.
Is a big factor in terms just overall diminishing of your immune system. Yeah.
Exactly. Your, your, but I would, I would say that from, you know,
what I've read, um, blood glucose, so, you know,
diabetics are much more susceptible to COVID because this virus tends to like
higher blood sugar. Um, if you, you have a preexisting, uh,
systemic in inflammation, not a good sign, um, vitamin D probably,
you know, across the board,
the greatest predictor of your survivability of coping. Yeah.
So if people have been locked inside all you know,
all year and haven't had any sun exposure, um,
their vitamin D status has been compromised, um, uh,
tremendously.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog Jr. E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost.
All for free Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.